if you try and explain what people do
if you attempt to explain it in terms of
deterministic laws
then you ignore the high level causative
structure that exists in the universe
namely emergence
and one of the most parsimonious ways to
explain why people choose to do one
thing or the other is free will
if you try and say well they were
compelled to do that in the first place
because there are these lower level laws
be they laws of Neuroscience or
neurobiology or even deeper the laws of
physics
you're missing
the difference between explanation
and prediction
and although an oracle who has access to
the perfect laws of physics and the
initial conditions would be able to
predict what people do in other words
their behavior is perfectly determined
in the same way that the copper atom was
perfectly determined to end up where it
was
that predictive story
is not an explanation there's a
difference there's a really important